Emendations:
* I have added an explanatory footnote to the use of "tutoyer" in chapter 12. As French students everywhere know, French has two pronouns used to talk to another person: "tu" and "vous". In modern French, "tu" is for friends and family (plus some special contexts like insults) and "vous" is for people one does not know (plus people that you'd expect to treat with some deference--your boss, for example, is probably "vous" no matter how long you've been working for them). In historical French, when social class was important, "tu" was used for social inferiors, and "vous" was used for social equals and superiors. "Tutoyer" means "to use 'tu' to speak with". (There is, naturally, also "vouvoyer", "to use 'vous' to speak with".) Modern English doesn't have formal and informal pronouns: it used to ("thou/thee" were informal and "you" was formal) but now uses the formal "you" for everyone and does not have a formality distinction. Since modern English lacks formal and informal pronouns, there's no word (or concept, really) equivalent to "tutoyer" and the original translator just left it in quotes. While an extremely careful reader might notice that D'Artagnan talks to Mouston with "thou/thee" before this conversation, and "you" after, and (correctly) deduce that "tutoyer" means "to use informal pronouns with someone", it's not at all clear and I thought I'd elucidate matters. (I would have translated the whole sentence differently, emphasizing that this is a major mark of respect from D'Artagnan, even as he dismisses it to himself as a trifle.)
